Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Deep Learning Course
Picsart Academy

Vitali Avagyan
Senior Data Scientist, TurinTech

February 6, 2023

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Outline

4
1
2
3

Outline
Deep Learning
What is PyTorch?

Linear and
Logistic
Regressions as
NNs

5
6
7

Deep Neural
Networks
Convolutional
Neural Networks
Recurrent Neural
Networks

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 1

Figure 1: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Panos Terlemezian’s style
beautiful robot...

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Deep Learning

What is Deep Learning?
Deep learning is a specific subfield of machine learning: a new take
on learning representations from data that puts an emphasis on
learning successive layers of increasingly meaningful representations.
The deep in deep learning isn’t a reference to any kind of deeper
understanding achieved by the approach; rather, it stands for this
idea of successive layers of representations.
François Chollet in Deep Learning with Python, Second Edition

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Frameworks
What is Deep Learning Framework?
"Deep learning (DL) frameworks offer building blocks
for designing, training, and validating deep neural
networks through a high-level programming interface."
Nvidia
Most popular:
PyTorch <– gaining momentum
TensorFlow and Keras
MXNet
JAX <– gaining momentum

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Introduction: Recommended Material
Chapter 1, Deep Learning with Python, Second Edition by
François Chollet
Chapter 1, Dive into Deep Learning by Zhang A. et al.
YouTube: INTRODUCTION TO PYTORCH
Chapter 1, Neural Networks and Deep Learning by Michael
Nielsen
Introduction, Deep Learning by Yoshua Bengio, Ian Goodfellow
and Aaron Courville
GitHub: Awesome Deep Learning
Chapter 1, Deep Learning with PyTorch: A practical approach
to building neural network models using PyTorch by Vishnu
Subramanian
Chapter 1, Deep Learning with PyTorch: Build, Train, and
Tune Neural Networks Using Python Tools by Eli Stevens,
Luca Antiga, Thomas Viehmann

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

What is PyTorch?

"An open source machine learning framework that
accelerates the path from research prototyping to
production deployment"
PyTorch Webpage
Tensors
Datasets, Dataloaders and Transforms
Autograd
Vectorisation
Computational Graph

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

PyTorch Ecosystem Tools
Python API
Ecosystem Tools
Lightning: Simplified PyTorch for Research
pyro and numpyro: Deep Universal Probabilistic Programming
BoTorch: Bayesian Optimization in PyTorch
fastai: fastai simplifies training fast and accurate neural nets
using modern best practices
ONNX Runtime: Cross-platform inference and training
machine-learning accelerator
Transformers by HuggingFace
Ray: A unified framework for scaling AI and Python
applications
PyTorch NLP: NLP library in Python
detectron2: State-of-the-art object detection and segmentation
algorithms
Optuna: Hyperparameter optimization framework

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

PyTorch Ecosystem Libraries

torchaudio: audio and signal processing
torchvision: popular datasets, model architectures, and
common image transformations for computer vision
torchtext: data processing utilities and popular datasets for
NLP
torchserve: model serving

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Introduction to PyTorch, tensors, and operations
What is Tensor?
"A PyTorch Tensor is basically the same as a numpy
array: it does not know anything about deep learning
or computational graphs or gradients, and is just a
generic n-dimensional array to be used for arbitrary
numeric computation."
Source: PYTORCH: TENSORS
Torch tensor:
Runs on either CPU or GPU
For GPU, cast tensor to a cuda datatype
More info on cuda python and accelerated computing

Optimised for automatic differentiation; grad_fn property
references the backward propagation function
Get used to numpy library and numpy array before moving on!

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 2

Figure 2: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Ivan Aivazovsky’s..."

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Tensors and Operations
GitHub: tensors

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 3

Figure 3: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Martiros Saryan’s..."

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Autograd and Vectorisation
GitHub
autograd
vectorisation

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

PyTorch: Recommended Reading

PyTorch Fundamentals and PyTorch Workflow Fundamentals
in Learn PyTorch for Deep Learning: Zero to Mastery by
Daniel Bourke

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 4 and Session 5

Figure 4: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Arshile Gorky’s..."

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Linear and Logistic Regressions as Neural Nets
Steps to build a Neural Net:
Model
Loss function
Optimiser
Training
Hyperparameters for training:
Number of Epochs - the number times to iterate over the
dataset
Batch Size - the number of data samples propagated through
the network before the parameters are updated
Learning Rate - how much to update models parameters at
each batch/epoch (SGD for Linear Regression at MLU)
Implementations:
Linear Regression
Logistic Regression

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Neural Networks: Recommended Reading

Chapter 5: The Mechanics of Learning in Deep Learning with
PyTorch by Eli Stevens et al.
Chapter 2: How the backpropagation algorithm works and
Chapter 3: Improving the way neural networks learn in Neural
Networks and Deep Learning by Michael Nielsen

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 6

Figure 5: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Minas Avetisyan’s..."

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Deep Neural Networks
What is deep in Deep Neural Network?
Let’s recall "the deep in deep learning isn’t a reference to any kind of
deeper understanding achieved by the approach; rather, it stands for this
idea of successive layers of representations."
François Chollet in Deep Learning with Python, Second Edition
Ingredients of common deep NN:
Hidden Layers
Activation Functions
Sigmoid
ReLU
Tanh

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 7

Figure 6: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Martiros Saryan’s..."

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Deep Neural Networks
GitHub: Multiclass Classification
Mathematics of Deep Neural Networks
Element-wise Activation Functions
Row-wise Activation Functions
Normalization Layers
Dropout Layers

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Homework 1
Build a simple neural network using PyTorch to classify MNIST
digits

Figure 7: Sample of MNIST digits

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Multiclass Classification: Recommended Reading

PyTorch Neural Network Classification in Learn PyTorch for
Deep Learning: Zero to Mastery by Daniel Bourke

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 8

Figure 8: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Minas Avetisyan’s..."

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)
What is a convolution?
Translation Invariance
Locality
Convolution Kernel (Filter) and Cross-Correlation Operation
Edge Detector
Padding and Strided Convolutions

Figure 9: Where is Waldo?

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 9

Figure 10: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Ivan Aivazovsky’s..."

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Channels in CNN
What is a channel?
Colour image input data might be a 3-dimensional tensor
representing an image with height, width, and colour. The
amount of red, green, and blue present is represented by the
RGB colour channels that’s why the image has a shape 3xhxw
Filters are applied to each channel separately
Filters are designed to learn different features in the image
Resulting outputs are combined to form the output of the
convolutional layer
Channels of an image are typically processed in parallel by
different filters
Multiple Input Channels
Multiple Output Channels

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 10

Figure 11: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "A beautiful robot helping a
human in 24the century painted by Martiros Saryan"

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

CNN
torchvision
Datasets

Open-CV
MNIST
GitHub

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 11

Figure 12: Generated via DALL-E, prompt "A beautiful robot helping a cyborg
in 24the century painted by Martiros Saryan"

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Advances in Deep Learning & Big CNN Models
1995: LeNet
Advances in GPU
GPU is good for massively parallel processing for repeatable,
identical computations
CPU is good for processing multiple, more complex
computations at the same time

2012 : AlexNet
2013: NiN
2014: VGG
2014: GoogLeNet
2015: Batch Normalization and 2016: Layer Normalization
2016: ResNet and 2017: ResNeXt
2017: DenseNet
2018: Neural Architecture Search (NAS) and 2019:
EfficientNets
2020: RegNet

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Convolutional Neural Networks: Recommended Reading
Chapter 7: Convolutional Neural Networks, Chapter 8:
Modern Convolutional Neural Networks in Dive into Deep
Learning by Zhang Aston et al.
Chapter 7 Telling birds from airplanes: Learning from
images and Chapter 8 Using convolutions to generalize in
Deep Learning with PyTorch by Eli Stevens et al.
Chapter 6: Deep Learning in Neural Networks and Deep
Learning by Michael Nielsen
PyTorch Computer Vision in Learn PyTorch for Deep
Learning: Zero to Mastery by Daniel Bourke
Figure 13: Kernel, Locality and Translation Invariance

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 12

Figure 14: Generated via DALL-E, prompt "A beautiful robot walking on a
street in 24the century painted by Minas Avetsiyan"

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs): Introduction
What is a Sequence?
Autoregressive Models
Sequence Models
Markov Models
Conditional Probability

Time Series
Language Models
RNN: A Visual Explanation
The Vanishing Gradient problem

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

RNNs: Recommended Reading

Chapter 13.1: Markov Models in Pattern Recognition and
Machine Learning by Christopher Bishop
Chapter 13.2: Hidden Markov Models in Pattern Recognition
and Machine Learning by Christopher Bishop
Chapter 9: Recurrent Neural Networks in Dive into Deep
Learning by Zhang Aston et al.
Chapter 5: Why are deep neural networks hard to train? in
Neural Networks and Deep Learning by Michael Nielsen

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 13

Figure 16: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "When humans and robots
live in peace in 24the century painted by Gevorg Bashinjaghian"

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

RNN: Implementations

PyTorch’s RNN module
Classifying Names with a Character-level RNN

RNN from scratch
GitHub

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 14

Figure 17: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "When humans and robots
live in peace in 27the century, Armenian motifs

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

More Efficient RNN Variants
Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM)
PyTorch’s LSTM module

Gated Recurrent Units (GRU)
PyTorch’s GRU module

LSTM and GRU: A Visual Explanation

Figure 18: Memory Cell of LSTM

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 15

Figure 19: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "A cute robot walking on the
streets of Yerevan City and conversing with people, Yervand Kochar painting"

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

RNN & LSTM in more detail
GitHub

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Sentiment Analysis: Recommended Resources

pytorch-sentiment-analysis

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 16

Figure 20: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "A cute robot walking on
the streets of Yerevan City and conversing with people, Mariam Aslamazyan
style painting"

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Encoder-Decoder Architecture
What is Encoder-Decoder Architecture?

Variable-length input -> variable-length output

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Encoder-Decoder Architecture: Recommended Reading

10.6. Encoder-Decoder Architecture in Dive into Deep
Learning by Zhang Aston et al.
10.7. Encoder-Decoder Seq2Seq for Machine Translation in
Dive into Deep Learning by Zhang Aston et al.
10.8. Beam Search in Dive into Deep Learning by Zhang
Aston et al.

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 17

Figure 21: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "A cute robot walking on
the streets of Yerevan City and conversing with people, Mariam Aslamazyan
style painting"

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Attention Mechanism
What is an Attention?

Figure 22: Bahdanau’s Attention Mechanism

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Attention Mechanism: Recommended Reading
Visualizing A Neural Machine Translation Model (Mechanics of Seq2seq
Models With Attention) by Jay Alamaar
11.1. Queries, Keys, and Values in Dive into Deep Learning by Zhang
Aston et al.
11.2. Attention Pooling by Similarity in Dive into Deep Learning by
Zhang Aston et al.
11.3. Attention Scoring Functions in Dive into Deep Learning by Zhang
Aston et al.
11.4. The Bahdanau Attention Mechanism in Dive into Deep Learning by
Zhang Aston et al.
11.5. Multi-Head Attention in Dive into Deep Learning by Zhang Aston
et al.
11.6. Self-Attention and Positional Encoding in Dive into Deep Learning
by Zhang Aston et al.
Attention Is All You Need by Ashish Vaswani et. al.
Attention Mechanism in Modern Deep Learning Techniques Applied to
Natural Language Processing

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Session 18

Figure 23: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "When Robots learning
Deep Learning in Armenia, Lavinia Bazhbeuk-Melikyan style painting"

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Introduction to Transformers
What is a Transformer?

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Transformers: Recommended Reading

The Illustrated Transformer by Jay Alamaar
11.7. The Transformer Architecture in Dive into Deep
Learning by Zhang Aston et al.
11.8. Transformers for Vision in Dive into Deep Learning by
Zhang Aston et al.
11.9. Large-Scale Pretraining with Transformers in Dive into
Deep Learning by Zhang Aston et al.

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Deep Learning: Additional Recommended Resources
Neural Networks: Zero to Hero by Andrej Karpathy
Natural Language Processing by Ritvik Kharkar (ritvikmath)
deeplearning-models
Visual ML papers: distill
List of various awesome Deep Learning resources:
awesome-deep-learning
applied-ml
Best-of Machine Learning with Python
Two Minute Papers
PyTorch
Jay Alammar’s YouTube Channel and blog

Outline Deep Learning What is PyTorch? Linear and Logistic Regressions as NNs Deep Neural Networks Convolution

Good Luck

Figure 24: Generated via Stable Diffusion, prompt "Robots saying "Good luck"
to new learners and waving their hands, Zuleika Bazhbeuk-Melikyan style
painting"

